
38

*Gardner (in Lee, 1917, U.S.G.S., P.P. 101, p. 185) has measured
a section of "Wasatch" 2,275' thick in S. Colorado. Reeside
(1924, U.S.G.S., P.P.134, p. 45-46) suggests that even this may
not include the whole "Wasatch" and that part of this may be
included in Gardner's Animas, 2,091' thick.

39

Thickness:

Total thickness is indeterminate since this is the youngest formation
in the Basin (except Pleistoscene - recent superficial deposits) and
more or less has everywhere been eroded from the top. No complete
section for any area where there is a good development seems ever to
have been measured in N.M. Estimates of thicknesses along E rim of
Basin vary from 1000' to 2500'. I think 1000' is nearer the actual
figure, although probable higher beds up Gavilan and elsewhere W of
the divide may add to this.

Details of "Facies B" in Regina Region:

The beds worked in '46 are all of the general facies described as
"B" above, forming badlands W, NW, & SW of Regina. The thickness
in exposures examined in detail is about 300'-500'. Counting the
basal ss. (the age of which is not really known) there may be
about 300'+ of lower beds not exposed here but occurring in this
region, and perhaps in the general area there are 200'+ of beds 
of higher level eroded or inaccessible on the exposures examined
this year. The sediments consist predominately of variegated, 
horizontally banded clays with lesser amounts of sandstone.

Banded Clays: As seen on weathered surfaces, the banded clays are 
usually buff, yellow, gray, lavender, or red, in picturesque and
colorful mixture and succession. Apparent thickness of color bands
varies from a few inches to 10' or 15' - rarely more without a change
of color. In these exposures yellow, buff, or gray tends to predominate
in the lower and middle part, with only occasionally bright red bonds.
Red becomes commoner in the highest horizons, as noted by Granger
(his "Largo"), but there is also pronounced horizontal variation and
in local exposures the amount of red is not a reliable indication of
general level.

  