
41

The surfaces are commonly mottled, especially yellow (ochraceous)
mottling, e.g. on lavender clays. A few bands are somewhat
greenish-gray. The colors as seen on the exposures are modified
by weathering and do not correspond exactly with the colors of
the underlying weathered strata. An apparently simple band of
rather uniform color may be developed by weathering from what is
really a rather complex mixture. A pale yellow band may be weathered
from, e.g., a pale grayish-greenish clay with bright yellow spots.

At a given locality the banding usually seems very uniform and 
persistent horizontally, but it is actually lenticular both in
smaller detail (see p. 29) and in broader view. A single color band
or characteristic sequence can rarely be followed for more than one 
or two miles without wedging out or changing its character.

Most of the clay is silty and contains some very fine grit. Some
of it is definitely sandy, but usually rather sharply distinguishable
from the true sandstones. Some of the clay beds, but not all, contain
innumerable concretions of various types. Commonest are irregular,
somewhat crystalline concretions, usually very rough and reddish brown
on the outside, generally 1/2" - 6" in diameter. These are so abundant 
in some layers that they form a mantle or pavement where washed out 
and concentrated on the slopes below the exposures.

No varved or thinly banded clays were found. Although the whole
formation seems to be water-deposited, no indication of lacustrine
deposition was seen.

SANDSTONES: Although the two types do intergrade, two characteristically
different types of sandstones may be distinguished, for convenience 
designated FLOOD SS and CHANNEL SS. The FLOOD SS is similar to
(prob. identical with) the predominant heavy ss's of "Facies A." These
are lenticular, but the lenses are very broad, sometimes several miles,
and not visibly linear in the exposures. The color is buff, yellow,
brown to bronze or copper-colored on weathered exposures, usually
darker than the channel ss. The grain is medium to coarse. Much X-bedding.

  