
51

NATURE AND OCCURRENCE OF FOSSILS

Fragments of fossil bone are relatively common throughout the area
examined in 1946 and may be found by a few minutes' search on almost
any exposure. Identifiable fossil mammals are, however, relatively
rare. In the course of the summer each of us had several days of
prospecting without finding one exactly identifiable mammal and the
record for one day - only approached on one other occasion - was
10 mammal jaws (defined as 2 or more associated, identifiable teeth):
this was at Loc. 18 (see p. 25).

Much the commonest bone fragments are pieces of turtle carapace. These
are very abundant. A nearly complete carapace is occasionally found,
but these are rare. Garfish scales are also common, usually single but
often in groups. Crocodilian teeth, scutes, and vertebrae and fragments
of Coryphodon bones and teeth are also relatively common float. Among
teeth and jaws, those of Eohippus are much the commonest (but even
these are not abundant and only relatively common), although Coryphodon
bone fragments are more common or, at least, more conspicuous.

Bones may occur at any level and in any matrix. They are not, however,
evenly distributed. Bones were found to be most abundant in the clays 
and especially in those weathering pale yellowish (usually gray, greenish,
or mauve with bright yellow splotches beneath the weathered surface). 
Even in the most favorable beds, however, long stretches may be
completely barren and others comparatively rich, apparently at random.
The flood ss's are almost completely barren, although one or two 
fragments of Coryphodon were seen in them.

The channel ss's are also in general barren, but occasionally a gravel,
especially a basal gravel, in a channel will contain numerous bones,
e.g. Loc. 63 (see p. 31). Although these occasional bony gravel lenses
are richer in bone than any other part of the formation, preservation
is even poorer than elsewhere, as a rule, the bones being mere bits,
often rolled and abraded. Occasional single teeth in these pockets
may be well

  