
53

preserved and more rarely a jaw fragment with 2 or more teeth, but many
of these apparently rich pockets really yield no identifiable specimens.
The association in these pockets is the normal flood-plain facies, the
same species as are found scattered on the surface of the clays: turtle, 
crocodilians, garfish, Coryphodon, Eohippus, etc.

The only other type of local (relative) concentration found was in clay
and of markedly different facies. It is represented by a single example,
Loc. 58, see notes on pp. 27-29.

Almost all fossils are very fragmentary, whether found in place or
weathered out. Even quarried specimens, unweathered and as complete as
when buried, are almost invariably mere fragments. The skeletons of
almost all the animals were thoroughly scattered and broken before
burial. Articulation is extremely rare, the only articulated specimens
found being a crocodilian foot (#36) - but no more of the skeleton - 
and cervicals 2-7 of a Coryphodon (part of #57) - but no atlas or skull,
some other skeletal parts associated but not articulated. Even 
association without articulation is highly unusual and only slightly
more common than articulation.

Because the bones were so scattered and broken before burial, discovery
of bone drift in the wash is seldom a lead to the rest of the specimen
or to associated bones still in site. Specimens found in site are 
occasionally more complete than those found in wash, but in most cases
drift specimens and those found in place are about equally imperfect.

Most of the specimens found, although so fragmentary, are relatively
clean. A considerable number of turtle and Coryphodon bones, but very
few of those of smaller mammals, are coated with a film of hematite.
Many of the jagged red-brown concretions (see p. 41) contain bone,
usually turtle or bits so fragmentary or distorted as to be
completely unidentifiable. In some cases the growth of the concretion
around and in the interstices and cracks of a larger bone or jaw, e.g.
of Coryphodon, 

  