

P 170 
NOTES PROFILE DB 
A.	The contact of the Patagonian and  
Terrestrial tuffs is approximately plane but  
discordant.  The basal Patagoniano is a tuff  
similar to some of those below but pith  
marine fossils.  The contact is almost always  
visible topographically.  In some, not all  
places the upper foot or so of the tuff is  
much indurated & contains irregular cavities  
and also bore holes ? almost exactly similar  
to what is occurring today near Comodoro  
where the modern sea is eroding the sane  
tuffs in the strand zone.  The base of the  
Patagoniano is somewhat higher, in absolute  
elevation, than at Cabeza Blanca. 
 
B The uppermost part of the terrestrial tuffs  
average about 20' in some places seems  
slightly different from the lower beds,  
yellowier, somewhat less massive, & with  
larger concretion.  In other places it cannot  
be so distinguished.  The contact is generally  
obscured.  No identifiable fossils were  
found, although an exhaustive search was  
made. 
On the basis of this section alone, there  
would be no reason to separate this from the  
lower beds.  It is not, however proven that it  
is not separate & equivalent to the  
fossiliferous Pyro- 
 
 
 
P171 
therium  beds of Cabeza Blanca.  If this is  
not the case, such an equivalent is lacking. 
Below this are about 175' of concordant  
tuffs, for the most part very massive.  There  
is some evidence of bedding & the three- 
fold division adopted in the section is  
generally visible, but the beds grade almost  
perfectly one into the other and seem to have  
been deposited continuously.  Throughout  
this series fossils occur although in general  
extremely rare and very poor in  
preservation.  Two zones, one about 20' to  
30' and the other about 105'- 115' above the  
base, were found to be very locally  
somewhat richer in fossils both of the  
Notostylpos fauna by field determination. 
The basal contact is generally well defined  
by a marked lithologic change reflected in  
the topography but it appears to be perfectly  
concordant. 
This series in generally appears to be exactly  
similar to the tuffs underlying the  
Pyrotherium beds at Cabeza Blanca (distant  
less then 5 

  