

P. 194     (from p.192) 
"PEHUENCHE" ? Throughout the length of  
the baranca & generally forming the base of  
its steepest part is a white tuffaceous bed,  
characteristic  in this series which contains  
little or no white elsewhere.   It rests on the  
Banco Negro (& equivalents) and grades  
more or less into the overlying beds. 
The bulk of the supposed Pehuenche and of  
the nearly vertical face of the cliff is a series  
about 60' thick at FA and 90'thick at FB.   
This is fairly massive but with some  
separation into variable (broadly lenticular)  
beds, & with cross bedding.  It consists of  
sands and tuffaceous sands, fine to coarse,  
usually with scattered pebbles of pumice and  
other volcanic debris.  The color is generally  
greenish grey, sometimes with a vaguely  
violet tinge from a distance. 
No fossils were found. 
"ARGILES FISSILAIRES" ? Above this  
grey and green series are the beds which  
Feruglio homologizes with the argiles  
fissilaires.  The maximum thickness  
assignable to these at FA is 50', at FB is  
about 25'.  The details are sufficiently given  
in the profiles. 
 
 
P. 195 
The upper surface of the grey-green series  
consists of hard tuff weathering brown &  
vesicular or nodular, introducing the arg. fis.  
Type of rock.  In fact this appears to be  
merely a somewhat more thin-bedded,  
variable, and altered part of the underlying  
"Pehuenche 
"EOCENE" ? The "arg. fis." terminates  
above with a characteristic bed of very  
irregular, platy, silicified tuffs with limonite  
nodules, often interbedded with grey to  
black clays.  Resting on the surface of these  
are clays, the basal part generally very  
black.   
[Feruglio, "Apuntes etc." , p.431,  estan cubiertas por un banco de   
arena y ripio?.>> I did not observe this,  
which must be very local at least at Las  
Violetas.]     
Above this follows a series of clays and tuffs  
irregularly intercolated with soft and hard  
fine sand to gravel, grey or white in color.   
These contain mammals, but extremely rare  
wherever I saw them.  The lowest in place  
were about 25' above the "arg. fis." 
These beds are not exposed in 


  